information-schema: add tidb_hot_regions_history docs and update tidb_hot_regions (#6624)
pingcap/docs: information-schema/information-schema-tidb-hot-regions-history.md

---
title: TIDB_HOT_REGIONS_HISTORY
summary: Learn the `TIDB_HOT_REGIONS_HISTORY` information_schema tabel.
---

# TIDB_HOT_REGIONS_HISTORY

> The `TIDB_HOT_REGIONS_HISTORY` table provides information about historical hot regions that are periodically recorded locally by PD, the recorded interval is the value of [' hot-regions-write-interval '](/pd-configuration-file. dm #hot-regions-write-interval) (the default value is 10minutes), the period for reserving historical hotspot information is the value of [' hot-regions-reserve-days'](/pd-configuration-file.m #hot-regions-write-interval) (the default value is 7days). See [PD configuration file description](/pd-configuration-file.md#hot-regions-write-interval) for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `TIDB_HOT_REGIONS_HISTORY` table provides information about history hot regions that are periodically recorded locally by PD. You can specify the recorded interval by configuring [' hot-regions-write-interval '](/pd-configuration-file. dm #hot-regions-write-interval). The default value is 10minutes. You can specify the period for reserving history information about hot regions by configuring [' hot-regions-reserve-days'](/pd-configuration-file.m #hot-regions-write-interval). The default value is 7days. See [PD configuration file description](/pd-configuration-file.md#hot-regions-write-interval) for details.
```

> The `TIDB_HOT_REGIONS_HISTORY` table provides information about history hot Regions that are periodically recorded locally by PD. You can specify the record interval by configuring [`hot-regions-write-interval`](/pd-configuration-file.md#hot-regions-write-interval). The default value is 10 minutes. You can specify the period for reserving history information about hot Regions by configuring [`hot-regions-reserved-days`](/pd-configuration-file.md#hot-regions-reserved-days). The default value is 7 days. See [PD configuration file description](/pd-configuration-file.md#hot-regions-write-interval) for details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `TIDB_HOT_REGIONS_HISTORY` table provides information about history hot Regions that are periodically recorded locally by PD. You can specify the record interval by configuring [`hot-regions-write-interval`](/pd-configuration-file.md#hot-regions-write-interval-new-in-v540). The default value is 10 minutes. You can specify the period for reserving history information about hot Regions by configuring [`hot-regions-reserved-days`](/pd-configuration-file.md#hot-regions-reserved-days-new-in-v540). The default value is 7 days. See [PD configuration file description](/pd-configuration-file.md#hot-regions-write-interval-new-in-v540) for details.
```

> The `TIDB_HOT_REGIONS_HISTORY` table provides information about history hot regions that are periodically recorded locally by PD. You can specify the recorded interval by configuring ['hot-regions-write-interval'](/pd-configuration-file.md#hot-regions-write-interval). The default value is 10 minutes. You can specify the period for reserving history information about hot regions by configuring ['hot-regions-reserved-days'](/pd-configuration-file.md#hot-regions-reserved-days). The default value is 7 days. See [PD configuration file description](/pd-configuration-file.md#hot-regions-write-interval) for details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `TIDB_HOT_REGIONS_HISTORY` table provides information about history hot Regions that are periodically recorded locally by PD. You can specify the record interval by configuring [`hot-regions-write-interval`](/pd-configuration-file.md#hot-regions-write-interval). The default value is 10 minutes. You can specify the period for reserving history information about hot Regions by configuring [`hot-regions-reserved-days`](/pd-configuration-file.md#hot-regions-reserved-days). The default value is 7 days. See [PD configuration file description](/pd-configuration-file.md#hot-regions-write-interval) for details.
```

> The `TIDB_HOT_REGIONS_HISTORY` table provides information about history hot regions that are periodically recorded locally by PD. You can specify the recorded interval by configuring [' hot-regions-write-interval '](/pd-configuration-file.md#hot-regions-write-interval). The default value is 10 minutes. You can specify the period for reserving history information about hot regions by configuring [' hot-regions-reserve-days'](/pd-configuration-file.md#hot-regions-reserved-days). The default value is 7 days. See [PD configuration file description](/pd-configuration-file.md#hot-regions-write-interval) for details.

Author: ```suggestion
The `TIDB_HOT_REGIONS_HISTORY` table provides information about history hot regions that are periodically recorded locally by PD. You can specify the recorded interval by configuring [' hot-regions-write-interval '](/pd-configuration-file.md#hot-regions-write-interval). The default value is 10 minutes. You can specify the period for reserving history information about hot regions by configuring [' hot-regions-reserved-days'](/pd-configuration-file.md#hot-regions-reserved-days). The default value is 7 days. See [PD configuration file description](/pd-configuration-file.md#hot-regions-write-interval) for details.
```

> The `TIDB_HOT_REGIONS_HISTORY` table provides information about history hot regions that are periodically recorded locally by PD. You can specify the recorded interval by configuring [' hot-regions-write-interval '](/pd-configuration-file. dm #hot-regions-write-interval). The default value is 10minutes. You can specify the period for reserving history information about hot regions by configuring [' hot-regions-reserve-days'](/pd-configuration-file.m #hot-regions-write-interval). The default value is 7days. See [PD configuration file description](/pd-configuration-file.md#hot-regions-write-interval) for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `TIDB_HOT_REGIONS_HISTORY` table provides information about history hot regions that are periodically recorded locally by PD. You can specify the recorded interval by configuring [' hot-regions-write-interval '](/pd-configuration-file.md#hot-regions-write-interval). The default value is 10 minutes. You can specify the period for reserving history information about hot regions by configuring [' hot-regions-reserve-days'](/pd-configuration-file.md#hot-regions-write-interval). The default value is 7 days. See [PD configuration file description](/pd-configuration-file.md#hot-regions-write-interval) for details.
```

> The `TIDB_HOT_REGIONS_HISTORY` table provides information about history hot regions that are periodically recorded locally by PD. You can specify the recorded interval by configuring [' hot-regions-write-interval '](/pd-configuration-file.md#hot-regions-write-interval). The default value is 10 minutes. You can specify the period for reserving history information about hot regions by configuring [' hot-regions-reserve-days'](/pd-configuration-file.md#hot-regions-write-interval). The default value is 7 days. See [PD configuration file description](/pd-configuration-file.md#hot-regions-write-interval) for details.

Author: ```suggestion
The `TIDB_HOT_REGIONS_HISTORY` table provides information about history hot regions that are periodically recorded locally by PD. You can specify the recorded interval by configuring [' hot-regions-write-interval '](/pd-configuration-file.md#hot-regions-write-interval). The default value is 10 minutes. You can specify the period for reserving history information about hot regions by configuring [' hot-regions-reserve-days'](/pd-configuration-file.md#hot-regions-reserved-days). The default value is 7 days. See [PD configuration file description](/pd-configuration-file.md#hot-regions-write-interval) for details.
```

> The `TIDB_HOT_REGIONS_HISTORY` table provides information about history hot regions that are periodically recorded locally by PD. You can specify the recorded interval by configuring [' hot-regions-write-interval '](/pd-configuration-file.md#hot-regions-write-interval). The default value is 10 minutes. You can specify the period for reserving history information about hot regions by configuring [' hot-regions-reserved-days'](/pd-configuration-file.md#hot-regions-reserved-days). The default value is 7 days. See [PD configuration file description](/pd-configuration-file.md#hot-regions-write-interval) for details.

Author: ```suggestion
The `TIDB_HOT_REGIONS_HISTORY` table provides information about history hot regions that are periodically recorded locally by PD. You can specify the recorded interval by configuring ['hot-regions-write-interval '](/pd-configuration-file.md#hot-regions-write-interval). The default value is 10 minutes. You can specify the period for reserving history information about hot regions by configuring ['hot-regions-reserved-days'](/pd-configuration-file.md#hot-regions-reserved-days). The default value is 7 days. See [PD configuration file description](/pd-configuration-file.md#hot-regions-write-interval) for details.
```

> The `TIDB_HOT_REGIONS_HISTORY` table provides information about history hot regions that are periodically recorded locally by PD. You can specify the recorded interval by configuring [' hot-regions-write-interval '](/pd-configuration-file.md#hot-regions-write-interval). The default value is 10 minutes. You can specify the period for reserving history information about hot regions by configuring [' hot-regions-reserved-days'](/pd-configuration-file.md#hot-regions-reserved-days). The default value is 7 days. See [PD configuration file description](/pd-configuration-file.md#hot-regions-write-interval) for details.

Author: ```suggestion
The `TIDB_HOT_REGIONS_HISTORY` table provides information about history hot regions that are periodically recorded locally by PD. You can specify the recorded interval by configuring ['hot-regions-write-interval'](/pd-configuration-file.md#hot-regions-write-interval). The default value is 10 minutes. You can specify the period for reserving history information about hot regions by configuring ['hot-regions-reserved-days'](/pd-configuration-file.md#hot-regions-reserved-days). The default value is 7 days. See [PD configuration file description](/pd-configuration-file.md#hot-regions-write-interval) for details.
```

| UPDATE_TIME | timestamp(6) | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| DB_NAME     | varchar(64)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| TABLE_NAME  | varchar(64)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| TABLE_ID    | bigint(21)   | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| INDEX_NAME  | varchar(64)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| INDEX_ID    | bigint(21)   | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| REGION_ID   | bigint(21)   | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| STORE_ID    | bigint(21)   | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| PEER_ID     | bigint(21)   | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| IS_LEARNER  | tinyint(1)   | NO   |      | 0       |       |
| IS_LEADER   | tinyint(1)   | NO   |      | 0       |       |
| TYPE        | varchar(64)  | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| HOT_DEGREE  | bigint(21)   | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| FLOW_BYTES  | double       | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| KEY_RATE    | double       | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
| QUERY_RATE  | double       | YES  |      | NULL    |       |
+-------------+--------------+------+------+---------+-------+
16 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

The fields in the `TIDB_HOT_REGIONS_HISTORY` table are described as follows:

> * UPDATE_TIME: Update time of the hot Region.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* UPDATE_TIME: The update time of the hot Region.
```

* DB_NAME: The database name of the object in which the hot Region is located.
* TABLE_ID: ID of located.
* TABLE_NAME: The name of the table in which the hot Region is located.
* INDEX_NAME: The name of the index in which the hot Region is located.
* INDEX_ID: ID of the table in which the hot Region is the index in which the hot Region is located.
* REGION_ID: ID of the hot Region.
* STORE_ID: ID of the store in which the hot Region is located.
* PEER_ID: ID of the Peer corresponding to the hot Region.
* IS_LEARNER: Whether the PEER is the LEARNER.
* IS_LEADER: Whether the PEER is the LEADER.
* TYPE: The type of the hot Region.
* HOT_DEGREE: The hot degree of the Region.
* FLOW_BYTES: The number of bytes written and read in the Region.
* KEY_RATE: The number of keys written and read in the Region.
* QUERY_RATE: The number of queries written and read in the Region.

> **Note:**
>

> > + `UPDATE_TIME`, `REGION_ID`, `STORE_ID`, `PEER_ID`, `IS_LEARNER`, `IS_LEADER` and `TYPE` fields are pushed down to the PD servers for execution. To reduce the overhead of using the table, you must specify the time range for the search, , and as many conditions as possible. For example,  `select * from tidb_hot_regions_history where store_id = 11 and update_time > '2020-05-18 20:40:00' and update_time < '2020-05-18 21:40:00' and type='write'`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> + `UPDATE_TIME`, `REGION_ID`, `STORE_ID`, `PEER_ID`, `IS_LEARNER`, `IS_LEADER` and `TYPE` fields are pushed down to the PD servers for execution. To reduce the overhead of using the table, you must specify the time range for the search,  and specify as many conditions as possible. For example,  `select * from tidb_hot_regions_history where store_id = 11 and update_time > '2020-05-18 20:40:00' and update_time < '2020-05-18 21:40:00' and type='write'`.
```

> Here are some common use cases:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following are some scenarios:
```

> > + `UPDATE_TIME`, `REGION_ID`, `STORE_ID`, `PEER_ID`, `IS_LEARNER`, `IS_LEADER` and `TYPE` fields are pushed down to the PD servers for execution. To reduce the overhead of using the table, you must specify the time range for the search, and specify as many conditions as possible. For example, `select * from tidb_hot_regions_history where store_id = 11 and update_time > '2020-05-18 20:40:00' and update_time < '2020-05-18 21:40:00' and type='write'`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> `UPDATE_TIME`, `REGION_ID`, `STORE_ID`, `PEER_ID`, `IS_LEARNER`, `IS_LEADER` and `TYPE` fields are pushed down to the PD servers for execution. To reduce the overhead of using the table, you must specify the time range for the search, and specify as many conditions as possible. For example, `select * from tidb_hot_regions_history where store_id = 11 and update_time > '2020-05-18 20:40:00' and update_time < '2020-05-18 21:40:00' and type='write'`.
```

> > + `UPDATE_TIME`, `REGION_ID`, `STORE_ID`, `PEER_ID`, `IS_LEARNER`, `IS_LEADER` and `TYPE` fields are pushed down to the PD servers for execution. To reduce the overhead of using the table, you must specify the time range for the search,  and specify as many conditions as possible. For example,  `select * from tidb_hot_regions_history where store_id = 11 and update_time > '2020-05-18 20:40:00' and update_time < '2020-05-18 21:40:00' and type='write'`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> + `UPDATE_TIME`, `REGION_ID`, `STORE_ID`, `PEER_ID`, `IS_LEARNER`, `IS_LEADER` and `TYPE` fields are pushed down to the PD servers for execution. To reduce the overhead of using the table, you must specify the time range for the search, and specify as many conditions as possible. For example, `select * from tidb_hot_regions_history where store_id = 11 and update_time > '2020-05-18 20:40:00' and update_time < '2020-05-18 21:40:00' and type='write'`.
```

> The following are some scenarios:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Common user scenarios
```

> * Query hotspot regions within a specified period of time:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Query hot Regions within a specified period of time. Replace update_time with your actual time.
```

> * Query hot Regions within a specific period of time. Replace update_time with your actual time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Query hot Regions within a specific period of time. Replace `update_time` with your actual time.
```

  {{< copyable "sql" >}}

  ```sql
  SELECT * FROM INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIDB_HOT_REGIONS_HISTORY WHERE update_time >'2021-08-18 21:40:00' and update_time <'2021-09-19 00:00:00';
  ```

  > **Note:**
  >

>   > + `UPDATE_TIME` also supports unix timestamps. For example, `update_time >TIMESTAMP('2021-08-18 21:40:00')` or `update_time > FROM_UNIXTIME(1629294000.000)` .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  > + `UPDATE_TIME` also supports Unix timestamps. For example, `update_time >TIMESTAMP('2021-08-18 21:40:00')` or `update_time > FROM_UNIXTIME(1629294000.000)` .
```

>   > + `UPDATE_TIME` also supports Unix timestamps. For example, `update_time >TIMESTAMP('2021-08-18 21:40:00')` or `update_time > FROM_UNIXTIME(1629294000.000)` .

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  > `UPDATE_TIME` also supports Unix timestamps. For example, `update_time >TIMESTAMP('2021-08-18 21:40:00')` or `update_time > FROM_UNIXTIME(1629294000.000)` .
```

> * Query hot Regions in a table within a specific period of time. Replace update_time and table_name with your actual values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Query hot Regions in a table within a specific period of time. Replace `update_time` and `table_name` with your actual values.
```

  {{< copyable "sql" >}}

  ```SQL
  SELECT * FROM INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIDB_HOT_REGIONS_HISTORY WHERE update_time >'2021-08-18 21:40:00' and update_time <'2021-09-19 00:00:00' and TABLE_NAME = 'table_name';
  ```

> * Query the distribution of hotspot regions within a specified period of time:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Query the distribution of hot Regions within a specified period of time. Replace update_time and table_name with your actual values. 
```

> * Query the distribution of hot Regions within a specific period of time. Replace update_time and table_name with your actual values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Query the distribution of hot Regions within a specific period of time. Replace `update_time` and `table_name` with your actual values.
```

  {{< copyable "sql" >}}

  ```sql

>   SELECT count(region_id) cnt, store_id FROM INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIDB_HOT_REGIONS_HISTORY WHERE update_time >'2021-08-18 21:40:00' and update_time <'2021-09-19 00:00:00'  and table_name = 'table_name' GROUP BY STORE_ID ORDER BY cnt DESC;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  SELECT count(region_id) cnt, store_id FROM INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIDB_HOT_REGIONS_HISTORY WHERE update_time >'2021-08-18 21:40:00' and update_time <'2021-09-19 00:00:00' and table_name = 'table_name' GROUP BY STORE_ID ORDER BY cnt DESC;
```

  ```

> * Query the distribution of hot Leader Regions within a specific period of time. Replace update_time and table_name with your actual values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Query the distribution of hot Leader Regions within a specific period of time. Replace `update_time` and `table_name` with your actual values.
```

  {{< copyable "sql" >}}

  ```sql
  SELECT count(region_id) cnt, store_id FROM INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIDB_HOT_REGIONS_HISTORY WHERE update_time >'2021-08-18 21:40:00' and update_time <'2021-09-19 00:00:00'  and table_name = 'table_name' and is_leader=1 GROUP BY STORE_ID ORDER BY cnt DESC;
  ```

> * Query the distribution of hotspot index regions within a specified period of time:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Query the distribution of hot Index Regions within a specified period of time. Replace update_time and table_name with your actual values. 
```

> * Query the distribution of hot Index Regions within a specific period of time. Replace update_time and table_name with your actual values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Query the distribution of hot Index Regions within a specific period of time. Replace `update_time` and `table_name` with your actual values.
```

  {{< copyable "sql" >}}

  ```sql
  SELECT count(region_id) cnt, index_name, store_id FROM INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIDB_HOT_REGIONS_HISTORY WHERE update_time >'2021-08-18 21:40:00' and update_time <'2021-09-19 00:00:00' and table_name = 'table_name' group by index_name, store_id order by index_name,cnt desc;
  ```

> * Query the distribution of hotspot index leader regions within a specified period of time:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Query the distribution of hot Index Leader Regions within a specified period of time. Replace update_time and table_name with your actual values. 
```

> * Query the distribution of hot Index Leader Regions within a specific period of time. Replace update_time and table_name with your actual values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Query the distribution of hot Index Leader Regions within a specific period of time. Replace `update_time` and `table_name` with your actual values.
```
